nowadays most smartphones are covered in
glass to make them look nice
but this design choice has a drawback
even the smallest bump can cause the
surface of your phone to shatter
but why are phone screens made of glass
and not something harder to crack like
plastic
well plastic is more resilient than
glass when dropped
you can actually buy smartphones with
plastic screens for a much lower price
but the screen won't work as well as a
glass one
smartphone touchscreens made of glass
are more sensitive to your
fingers than plastic ones so they
respond faster
glass is not just fancier looking than
plastic it's also a more reliable
material
another drawback of using plastic is its
softness
this means that pretty much anything can
scratch it if your phone screen was made
of plastic
you wouldn't be able to carry it in your
bag without it getting scratched by
another
object and you can forget about putting
your plastic phone in your pocket
if you need to carry your keys there the
glass used to make smartphone screens is
usually scratch resistant
so you don't have to worry about your
keys doing any damage
but how can glass be so resilient to
scratches
and at the same time so fragile to
falling from even a small height
well it all comes down to the hardness
of the glass
the major drawback here is how brittle
it is
materials that can't bend tend to break
easily
phone companies and their glass
suppliers have to strike a careful
balance between brittleness and hardness
and this can be tough a solution to the
problem was found in
gorilla glass which is used in a lot of
devices today
while no one has found the perfect
material to use for smartphone screens
this chemically strengthened glass has
some great characteristics
it's thin light and damage resistant
gorilla glass is nearly impossible to
scratch
and it can withstand falls from big
heights
phone manufacturers are always looking
for new ways to make our gadgets more
durable and smarter
and sometimes when they start thinking
about what the smartphones of the future
will look like
they end up with some interesting ideas
there's a chance that smartphones might
one day completely replace our banks and
credit cards
all around the world people could send
their money entirely through mobile apps
like
apple pay or samsung pay thanks to our
smartphones
many stores won't even have ordinary
cash registers anymore
smartphones will probably play a more
important role as
authenticator systems our phones could
use things like gps
biometrics and user data to confirm
payments and other transactions
but nothing compares to a different
invention more and more smartphones are
becoming flexible
in the future you might not carry your
phone in the palm of your hand anymore
instead a bendy screen could wrap around
your wrist like a bracelet
even curved displays like this will be
fully functional
another gadget for those who like to
keep their hands free is also in the
works
the phone that looks like a fitness
tracker a gadget like this won't have a
screen at all
instead it'll project your phone's
interface onto your arm
it might even be equipped with special
sensors that capture the movements of
your fingers
it's already possible to open doors
raise the barrier in a parking lot
and turn on a microwave with your phone
this kind of technology could become
more widespread over time
smart home technology could improve
security for example
if someone gets into your house you'll
receive an alarm even if you're far from
home
but in the future you might be able to
do even more things through your
smartphone
for example our devices might be able to
give commands to our future robot
helpers
or maybe just zap that burglar in your
living room
even if your phone has a good battery it
usually only lasts for two days or less
this may change in the future developers
are always looking for ways to make more
powerful batteries
they're also trying to make them smaller
and lighter
phones come in so many colors that it's
sometimes hard to choose the one you
like
black silver and white are the classic
colors
but for some people these are kind of
boring bright colors stand out more
but they can give your device a less
professional look
but this won't be a problem in the
future when your screen might cover
all of your phone's surface with this
screen we might have the option of
changing our device's color
to suit our mood or the situation we
take selfies more and more often
so we need good front facing cameras in
our devices
iphones have big notches on the top of
their screens to accommodate these
cameras
samsung devices have punch hole cutouts
for them
these design choices take up space on
your display
but soon we'll have under screen camera
technology
you won't even see the camera anymore
because it'll be beneath your phone
screen
one day we might even have holographic
smartphones
these phones will be covered by
thousands of fisheye lenses
that disperse light in different
directions this feature will allow us to
see
3d images on our smartphone screens
without glasses or any special equipment
researchers have already created this
technology but it's still far from
perfect
the screen resolution on this
experimental phone is just 160 by 104
pixels
which isn't the best the smartphones of
the future may also help us to improve
our diets
our gadgets will allow us to scan our
food and count calories
some manufacturers don't show all the
ingredients they put in their food
with this technology you'll be able to
see each and every ingredient right on
your screen
and make the right decision or not
smartphone displays are great for
watching videos and playing games
but not for reading the e-ink displays
that are used in electronic readers are
a much better option
they're not only less harmful to your
eyes but also more convenient
you can read ebooks outside even in
direct sunlight
future smartphones may be able to switch
to this reading mode whenever you need
it
smartphones of the future may not even
look like phones at all
our devices may have a completely new
shape or form
but still perform the same tasks that
smartphones do today
for example in the future our phones
could be replaced by
augmented reality devices these might
look similar to a new version of google
glass
glasses with ar technology might be able
to project images in front of your eyes
you'll be able to watch your favorite
shows play games
view photos and browse web pages without
a physical phone
you won't even need a proper tv at home
anymore saving you money
and space